add API docs for plugin runtimes (#23223)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/api-docs/system/plugins-runtimes-catalog.mdx

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog - HTTP API
description: The `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog` endpoint is used to manage plugin runtimes.
---

# `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog`

The `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog` endpoint is used to read, register, update, and
remove plugin runtimes in Vault's catalog. Plugin runtimes must be registered before use, and

> once registered, backends can use the plugin runtime by querying the catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
once registered, backends can use the plugin runtime by referencing them when registering a plugin.
```

> The `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog` endpoint is used to read, register, update, and
> remove plugin runtimes in Vault's catalog. Plugin runtimes must be registered before use, and
> once registered, backends can use the plugin runtime by querying the catalog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog` manages plugin runtimes in your Vault catalog by reading, registering, updating, and removing plugin runtime information. Plugin runtimes must be registered before use. Once registered, backends can use the plugin runtime by referencing it when registering a plugin.
```

Style correction: write in active voice, one idea per sentence

## LIST plugin runtimes

> This endpoint lists the plugin runtimes in the catalog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `LIST` endpoint returns a list of the plugin runtimes in the catalog.
```

Style correction: avoid "this" as a pronoun

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method | Path                   |
| :----- | :--------------------- |

> | `LIST`  | `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog` |

Reviewer 3: It looks like either `LIST` or `GET` works for this endpoint, though since the plugins/catalog endpoint doc uses `GET`, perhaps we should use `GET` here as well? 

```suggestion
| `GET`  | `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog` |
```

Reviewer: The plugins/catalog endpoint has its own additional baggage, I would just list two lines here, one for LIST and one for GET.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request LIST
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "runtimes": [
      {
        "name": "example-plugin-runtime",
        "type": "container",
        "oci_runtime": "example-oci-runtime",
        "cgroup_parent": "/examplelimit/",
        "cpu_nanos": 1000,
        "memory_bytes": 10000000
      },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```

## Register plugin runtime

> This endpoint registers a new plugin runtime, or updates an existing one with the
> supplied type and name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The registration endpoint registers a new plugin runtime, or updates an existing one with the
supplied type and name.
```

Style correction: avoid "this" as a pronoun

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method | Path                               |
| :----- | :--------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog/:type/:name` |

### Parameters

> - `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the type of this plugin runtime. Currently
>   only accepts "container".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the plugin runtime type. Currently
  only accepts "container".
```

> - `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name for this plugin runtime. The name
>   is what is used to look up plugin runtimes in the catalog. This is part of the request URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Part of the request URL. Specifies the plugin runtime name.
   Use the runtime name to look up plugin runtimes in the catalog.
```

- `oci_runtime` `(string: <optional>)` – Specifies OCI-compliant container runtime to use.
  Default is "runsc", gVisor's OCI runtime.

> - `cgroup_parent` `(string: <optional>)` – Specifies the parent cgroup to set for each container.
>   This can be used to control the total resource usage for a group of plugins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `cgroup_parent` `(string: <optional>)` – Specifies the parent cgroup to set for each container.
  Use the cgroup to control the total resource usage for a group of plugins.
```

> - `cpu_nanos` `(int: <optional>)` – Specifies cpu limit to set per container in nanoCPUs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `cpu_nanos` `(int: <optional>)` – Specifies cpu limit to set per container in billionths of a CPU.
```

  Defaults to no limit.

- `memory_bytes` `(int: <optional>)` – Specifies memory limit to set per container in bytes.
  Defaults to no limit.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "oci_runtime": "example-oci-runtime",
  "cgroup_parent": "/examplelimit/",
  "cpu_nanos": 1000,
  "memory_bytes": 10000000
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog/container/example-plugin-runtime
```

## Read plugin runtime

> This endpoint returns the configuration data for the plugin runtime with the given type and name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The read endpoint returns the configuration data for the plugin runtime with the given type and name.
```

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method | Path                                                |
| :----- | :-------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog/:type/:name` |

### Parameters

- `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the type of this plugin runtime. Currently
  only accepts "container".

> - `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the plugin runtime to retrieve.
>   This is part of the request URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Part of the request URL. Specifies the name of the plugin runtime to retrieve.
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request GET \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog/container/example-plugin-runtime
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "name": "example-plugin-runtime",
    "type": "container",
    "oci_runtime": "example-oci-runtime",
    "cgroup_parent": "/examplelimit/",
    "cpu_nanos": 1000,
    "memory_bytes": 10000000
  }
}
```

## Remove plugin runtime from catalog

> This endpoint removes the plugin runtime with the given type and name. Note that
> the request will fail if any registered plugin references the plugin runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The remove endpoint removes the plugin runtime with the given type and name. Note that
the request will fail if any registered plugin references the plugin runtime.
```

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method   | Path                                                |
| :------- | :-------------------------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/plugins/runtimes/catalog/:type/:name` |

### Parameters

- `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the type of this plugin runtime. Currently
  only accepts "container".

> - `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the plugin runtime to delete.
>   This is part of the request URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Part of the request URL. Specifies the name of the plugin runtime to delete.
```
